---
layout: post
title:      "Why did you decide to learn software development?"
date:       2018-02-20 19:33:50 +0000
permalink:  why_did_you_decide_to_learn_software_development
---

I actually didn't decide to do it until I tried it many times over  years and completely giving up, many times.
First time I tried learning how to program it was around year 1999. 
After playing some  computer  games  I became fascinated with the amazing possibilities that a computer can offer. The 3d visual effects were just being invented and developed and for me it was the most interesting thing ever.  I imagined myself being one of those fancy game creators and I loved the idea. So I started looking into taking a class and ended up enrolling in a 7 month program for learning Visual Basic, C++ and Visual FoxPro.  Not too many people these days know anymore about Visual FoxPro. It was a small database that could be modified with a Visual Basic type of macro. The concept overall wasn't bad at all. Theoretically you could program very viable applications for small businesses - an extremely  practical and progressive concept at that time. However, due to the precarious nature of the operating systems back then (I am talking windows 98) as well as a constant failure of the  unfinished products (the older versions of Visua FoxPro had lots of issues) I quickly became very disappointed with the course.  After finishing it I didn't try programming until much later when I was taking some classes at a community college in Sacramento, CA area. This time I was trying out Java. It was considered the newest the latest and the greatest of programming. I had two teachers. The first teacher was a nice young man with a great personality and  didn't know much about Java or programming whatsoever. However he knew a lot of good jokes, so I had a pretty good time in his class while not  learning anything, of course. The second teacher was an engineer with lots of experience as a developer but didn't have any teaching skills whatsoever and I remember him telling  us from the first day that half of the class was going to fail and a quarter of us was going to withdraw. He stated bluntly that - programming is not for everybody and we shouldn't be lying to ourselves.  So after trying hard to keep up with the "natural born programmers" in my class for about 2 weeks I had to withdraw.  At that point I've lost all my faith in myself as a software developer and when it came to programming my self esteem was basically gone for a few good years. Year 2005 came about and  I joined the military and was sent immediately on board of a Navy ship to serve in the Persian Gulf. I was lucky to have a job as a database administrator and superuser for a military database. Often at nights I would have some time to myself and I started looking into JavaScript games because they didn't require to be installed on a computer and you could run it in your browser directly without the need of an Internet connection (which was very limited in our case). After trying a few different games I started to understand better all the possibilities that a scripting language like JavaScript can offer. And my interest in programming was sparked once again. I was modifying the code and having a great time trying to understand the intricacies of JavaScript. I didn't have a good course to follow but I could find lots of tutorials for free on line. After playing with these programs for a few good months I came to realize that I am able to sit down in front of a computer for many hours and troubleshoot a piece of code  and enjoy every second of it. I remember telling myself one time: "OMG, Marin you are a computer nerd!"  Later when I discovered Ruby (by trying a free on line course) I realized that I have found my programming language. Currently I  am still totally fascinated by Ruby and at one point I told myself that I was going to become an expert in Ruby because I love working with it.  So here I am. I am a total beginner but I am totally enjoying my studies with  Flatiron and so far the program surpassed all my expectations. I am learning a cutting edge technology with amazing staff, encouragement and fun projects and I am very happy to be doing it. 

Thank you!

Marin 
